Here, below London, 32 km of new tunnels are almost completed.
But they are not for people, but for electricity.
The 400,000-volt voltages will be transmitted here,
fueling a growing city
which requires more and more electricity.
This project stood a billion pounds,
so that the lights could light up.
How did we get to this?
In the 1920's, electricity was created by hundreds of small businesses
in places and cities across the United Kingdom.
Everyone was different and mostly incompatible:
Only London had 24 different voltages and 10 different frequencies.
So if you moved to the adjacent street
maybe you had to buy all the new bulbs.
Under the condition that you had bulbs.
Electricity prices were too high for almost everyone.
The solution could have been what other European countries did:
adopt and apply standards, regulate prices,
perhaps nationalize companies that have engaged in electricity production.
And lower the price to everyone,
people and companies. A good plan in theory,
but the problem was that the prime minister was then Stanley Baldwin,
who led a conservative party. Political
he could not control private corporations!
That would be socialist.
That's what the other side was doing.
That is why the solution was a very British compromise:
National Gridiron, later only National Grid.
The Central Committee for Electricity,
backed by the government and privately managed,
built and owned the central infrastructure.
He built a network of power lines across the country.
The network has reduced the risk for small power companies
and enabled them to access a much larger market.
If they wanted to connect and reach out to everyone,
they had to reach the Network Frequency Standards,
voltage and reliability.
The best story I found while researching this:
Initially there were six different network areas
spread across the country and managed separately.
Their managers thought it was too risky
connect them all together to one state network.
But theoretically it was possible.
Sometimes two or even three areas were merged together
to help maintain a network if somewhere a power plant was shut down.
So on the night of October 29, 1937, engineers in control rooms
without permission quietly decided
Connect the whole country to one network for an hour or two
to see what's going to happen.
And the Network worked. One year later
even the managers agreed that it was the only way
to ensure that the lights are always bright everywhere.
How is the level of regulation?
and privatization
changed over the years,
as in nearly every other country in the world,
and when technology has developed to the point
instead of the power line
now we are building a billion pound of 60 meter tunnels under London
and we still have a majority private network today.
Home on the London Stock Exchange.
If history had been different,
maybe this tunnel might have been a government today,
but even if it is,
we should still network to have light.
Thank you very much for the National Grid
and all the people who allowed me to walk through the tunnels,
together with Geoff from London,
who have themselves made a video about these tunnels
and my infrastructure around me.
See this channel too!
Translated by Mario MleÄka